1 
SEC 1707 (07-24)  File 1 of 5 
 
 
 
FORM ADV (Paper Version) 
• UNIFORM APPLICATION FOR INVESTMENT ADVISER REGISTRATION 
AND 
• REPORT FORM BY EXEMPT REPORTING ADVISERS 
Form ADV: General Instructions 
Read these instructions carefully before filing Form ADV. Failure to follow these instructions, 
properly complete the form, or pay all required fees may result in your application or report 
being delayed or rejected. 
 
In these instructions and in Form ADV, “you” means the investment adviser (i.e., the advisory 
firm). 
 
If you are a “separately identifiable department or division” (SID) of a bank, “you” means the 
SID, rather than your bank, unless the instructions or the form provide otherwise. 
 
If you are a private fund adviser filing an umbrella registration, “you” means the filing adviser 
and each relying adviser, unless the instructions or the form provide otherwise. The information 
in Items 1, 2, 3 and 10 (including corresponding schedules) should be provided for the filing 
adviser only. 
 
Terms that appear in italics are defined in the Glossary of Terms to Form ADV. 
 
1. 
Where can I get more information on Form ADV, electronic filing, and the IARD? 
 
The SEC provides information about its rules and the Advisers Act on its website: 
<http://www.sec.gov/iard>. 
 
NASAA provides information about state investment adviser laws and state rules, and how to 
contact a state securities authority, on its website: <http://www.nasaa.org>. 
 
FINRA provides information about the IARD and electronic filing on the IARD website: 
<http://www.iard.com>. 
 
2. 
What is Form ADV used for? 
 
Investment advisers use Form ADV to: 
 
• Register with the Securities and Exchange Commission 
• Register with one or more state securities authorities 
OMB APPROVAL 
OMB Number: 
3235-0049 
Expires: 
July 31, 2027 
Estimated average burden 
hours per response 
10.72 

2 
SEC 1707 (07-24)  File 1 of 5 
 
• Amend those registrations 
• Report to the SEC as an exempt reporting adviser 
• Report to one or more state securities authorities as an exempt reporting adviser 
• Amend those reports; and 
• Submit a final report as an exempt reporting adviser 
 
3. 
How is Form ADV organized? 
 
Form ADV contains five parts: 
 
• Part 1A asks a number of questions about you, your business practices, the persons who 
own and control you, and the persons who provide investment advice on your behalf. 
o All advisers registering with the SEC or any of the state securities authorities must 
complete Part 1A. 
o Exempt reporting advisers (that are not also registering with any state securities 
authority) must complete only the following Items of Part 1A: 1, 2, 3, 6, 7, 10, and 
11, as well as corresponding schedules. Exempt reporting advisers that are 
registering with any state securities authority must complete all of Form ADV. 
 
Part 1A also contains several supplemental schedules. The items of Part 1A let you know 
which schedules you must complete. 
 
o Schedule A asks for information about your direct owners and executive officers. 
o Schedule B asks for information about your indirect owners. 
o Schedule C is used by paper filers to update the information required by Schedules A 
and B (see Instruction 18). 
o Schedule D asks for additional information for certain items in Part 1A. 
o Schedule R asks for additional information about relying advisers. 
o Disclosure Reporting Pages (or DRPs) are schedules that ask for details about 
disciplinary events involving you or your advisory affiliates. 
• Part 1B asks additional questions required by state securities authorities. Part 1B 
contains three additional DRPs. If you are applying for SEC registration or are registered 
only with the SEC, you do not have to complete Part 1B. (If you are filing electronically 
and you do not have to complete Part 1B, you will not see Part 1B). 
• Part 2A requires advisers to create narrative brochures containing information about the 
advisory firm. The requirements in Part 2A apply to all investment advisers registered 
with or applying for registration with the SEC, but do not apply to exempt reporting 
advisers. Every application for registration must include a narrative brochure prepared in 
accordance with the requirements of Part 2A of Form ADV. See Advisers Act Rule 203- 
1. 
• Part 2B requires advisers to create brochure supplements containing information about 
certain supervised persons. The requirements in Part 2B apply to all investment advisers 
registered with or applying for registration with the SEC, but do not apply to exempt 
reporting advisers. 
• Part 3 requires advisers to create relationship summary (Form CRS) containing 
information for retail investors. The requirements in Part 3 apply to all investment 

3 
SEC 1707 (07-24)  File 1 of 5 
 
advisers registered or applying for registration with the SEC, but do not apply to exempt 
reporting advisers. Every adviser that has retail investors to whom it must deliver a 
relationship summary must include in the application for registration a relationship 
summary prepared in accordance with the requirements of Part 3 of Form ADV. See 
Advisers Act Rule 203-1. 
 
4. 
When am I required to update my Form ADV? 
 
• SEC- and State-Registered Advisers: 
 
o Annual updating amendments: You must amend your Form ADV each year by filing 
an annual updating amendment within 90 days after the end of your fiscal year. 
When you submit your annual updating amendment, you must update your responses 
to all items in Part 1A, 1B, 2A and 2B (as applicable), including corresponding 
sections of Schedules A, B, C, and D and all sections of Schedule R for each relying 
adviser. You must submit your summary of material changes required by Item 2 of 
Part 2A either in the brochure (cover page or the page immediately thereafter) or as 
an exhibit to your brochure. You may, but are not required, to submit amended 
versions of the relationship summary required by Part 3 as part of your annual 
updating amendment. 
 
o Other-than-annual amendments: In addition to your annual updating amendment, 
 
 If you are registered with the SEC or a state securities authority, you must 
amend Part 1A, 1B, 2A and 2B (as applicable) of your Form ADV, including 
corresponding sections of Schedules A, B, C, D, and R, by filing additional 
amendments (other-than-annual amendments) promptly, if: 
 
o you are adding or removing a relying adviser as part of your umbrella 
registration; 
 
o information you provided in response to Items 1 (except 1.O. and Section 
1.F. of Schedule D), 3, 9 (except 9.A.(2), 9.B.(2), 9.E., and 9.F.), or 11 of 
Part 1A or Items 1, 2.A. through 2.F., or 2.I. of Part 1B or Sections 1 or 3 
of Schedule R becomes inaccurate in any way; 
 
o information you provided in response to Items 4, 8, or 10 of Part 1A, or 
Item 2.G. of Part 1B, or Section 4 of Schedule R becomes materially 
inaccurate; or information you provided in your brochure becomes 
materially inaccurate (see note below for exceptions). 
 
Notes: Part 1: If you are submitting an other-than-annual amendment, you are not 
required to update your responses to Items 2, 5, 6, 7, 9.A.(2), 9.B.(2), 9.E., 
9.F., or 12 of Part 1A, Items 2.H. or 2.J. of Part 1B, Section 1.F. of Schedule 
D or Section 2 of Schedule R even if your responses to those items have 
become inaccurate. 
 
Part 2: You must amend your brochure supplements (see Form ADV, Part 

4 
SEC 1707 (07-24)  File 1 of 5 
 
2B) promptly if any information in them becomes materially inaccurate. If 
you are submitting an other-than-annual amendment to your brochure, you are 
not required to update your summary of material changes as required by Item 
2. You are not required to update your brochure between annual amendments 
solely because the amount of client assets you manage has changed or because 
your fee schedule has changed. However, if you are updating your brochure 
for a separate reason in between annual amendments, and the amount of client 
assets you manage listed in response to Item 4.E. or your fee schedule listed in 
response to Item 5.A. has become materially inaccurate, you should update 
that item(s) as part of the interim amendment. 
 
• If you are an SEC-registered adviser, you are required to file your 
brochure amendments electronically through IARD. You are not 
required to file amendments to your brochure supplements with the 
SEC, but you must maintain a copy of them in your files. 
 
• If you are a state-registered adviser, you are required to file your 
brochure amendments and brochure supplement amendments with the 
appropriate state securities authorities through IARD. 
 
Part 3: If you are registered with the SEC, you must amend Part 3 of your 
Form ADV within 30 days whenever any information in your relationship 
summary becomes materially inaccurate by filing with the SEC an additional 
other-than-annual amendment or by including the relationship summary as 
part of an annual updating amendment. You must include an exhibit 
highlighting the most recent changes required by Form ADV, Part 3 (Form 
CRS), General Instruction 8.C. 
 
• Exempt reporting advisers: 
 
o Annual Updating Amendments: You must amend your Form ADV each year by 
filing an annual updating amendment within 90 days after the end of your fiscal year. 
When you submit your annual updating amendment, you must update your responses 
to all required items, including corresponding sections of Schedules A, B, C, and D. 
o Other-than-Annual Amendments: In addition to your annual updating amendment, 
you must amend your Form ADV, including corresponding sections of Schedules A, 
B, C, and D, by filing additional amendments (other-than-annual amendments) 
promptly if: 
 
information you provided in response to Items 1 (except Item 1.O. and Section 
1.F. of Schedule D), 3, or 11 becomes inaccurate in any way; or 
information you provided in response to Item 10 becomes materially 
inaccurate. 
 
Failure to update your Form ADV, as required by this instruction, is a violation of SEC 
rules or similar state rules and could lead to your registration being revoked. 
 

5 
SEC 1707 (07-24)  File 1 of 5 
 
5. 
What is SEC umbrella registration and how can I satisfy the requirements of filing 
an umbrella registration? 
 
An umbrella registration is a single registration by a filing adviser and one or more relying 
advisers who advise only private funds and certain separately managed account clients that 
are qualified clients and collectively conduct a single advisory business. Absent other facts 
suggesting that the filing adviser and relying adviser(s) conduct different businesses, 
umbrella registration is available under the following circumstances: 
 
i. The filing adviser and each relying adviser advise only private funds and clients in 
separately managed accounts that are qualified clients and are otherwise eligible to invest 
in the private funds advised by the filing adviser or a relying adviser and whose accounts 
pursue investment objectives and strategies that are substantially similar or otherwise 
related to those private funds. 
 
ii. The filing adviser has its principal office and place of business in the United States and, 
therefore, all of the substantive provisions of the Advisers Act and the rules thereunder 
apply to the filing adviser's and each relying adviser's dealings with each of its clients, 
regardless of whether any client of the filing adviser or relying adviser providing the 
advice is a United States person. 
 
iii. Each relying adviser, its employees and the persons acting on its behalf are subject to the 
filing adviser’s supervision and control and, therefore, each relying adviser, its employees 
and the persons acting on its behalf are “persons associated with” the filing adviser (as 
defined in section 202(a)(17) of the Advisers Act). 
 
iv. The advisory activities of each relying adviser are subject to the Advisers Act and the 
rules thereunder, and each relying adviser is subject to examination by the SEC. 
 
v. The filing adviser and each relying adviser operate under a single code of ethics adopted 
in accordance with SEC rule 204A-1 and a single set of written policies and procedures 
adopted and implemented in accordance with SEC rule 206(4)-7 and administered by a 
single chief compliance officer in accordance with that rule. 
 
To satisfy the requirements of Form ADV while using umbrella registration the filing 
adviser must sign, file, and update as required, a single Form ADV (Parts 1 and 2) that 
relates to, and includes all information concerning, the filing adviser and each relying adviser 
(e.g., disciplinary information and ownership information), and must include this same 
information in any other reports or filings it must make under the Advisers Act or the rules 
thereunder (e.g., Form PF). The filing adviser and each relying adviser must not be 
prohibited from registering with the SEC by section 203A of the Advisers Act (i.e., the filing 
adviser and each relying adviser must individually qualify for SEC registration). 
 
Unless otherwise specified, references to “you” in Form ADV refer to both the filing adviser 
and each relying adviser. The information in Items 1, 2, 3 and 10 (including corresponding 
schedules) should be provided for the filing adviser only. A separate Schedule R should be 
completed for each relying adviser. References to “you” in Schedule R refer to the relying 

6 
SEC 1707 (07-24)  File 1 of 5 
 
adviser only. 
 
A filing adviser applying for registration with the SEC should complete a Schedule R for 
each relying adviser. If you are a filing adviser registered with the SEC and would like to 
add or delete relying advisers from an umbrella registration, you should file an other-than- 
annual amendment and add or delete Schedule Rs as needed. 
 
Note: Umbrella registration is not available to exempt reporting advisers. 
 
6. 
Where do I sign my Form ADV application or amendment? 
 
You must sign the appropriate Execution Page. There are three Execution Pages at the end 
of the form. Your initial application, your initial report (in the case of an exempt reporting 
adviser), and all amendments to Form ADV must include at least one Execution Page. 
 
• If you are applying for or are amending your SEC registration, or if you are reporting as 
an exempt reporting adviser or amending your report, you must sign and submit either a: 
 
o Domestic Investment Adviser Execution Page, if you (the advisory firm) are a 
resident of the United States; or 
o Non-Resident Investment Adviser Execution Page, if you (the advisory firm) are not a 
resident of the United States. 
 
• If you are applying for or are amending your registration with a state securities authority, 
you must sign and submit the State-Registered Investment Adviser Execution Page. 
 
7. 
Who must sign my Form ADV or amendment? 
 
The individual who signs the form depends upon your form of organization: 
 
• For a sole proprietorship, the sole proprietor. 
• For a partnership, a general partner. 
• For a corporation, an authorized principal officer. 
• For a “separately identifiable department or division” (SID) of a bank, a principal officer 
of your bank who is directly engaged in the management, direction, or supervision of 
your investment advisory activities. 
• For all others, an authorized individual who participates in managing or directing your 
affairs. 
 
The signature does not have to be notarized, and in the case of an electronic filing, should be 
a typed name. 
 
8. 
How do I file my Form ADV? 
 
Complete Form ADV electronically using the Investment Adviser Registration Depository 
(IARD) if: 
 

7 
SEC 1707 (07-24)  File 1 of 5 
 
• You are filing with the SEC (and submitting notice filings to any of the state securities 
authorities), or 
 
• You are filing with a state securities authority that requires or permits advisers to submit 
Form ADV through the IARD. 
 
Note: SEC rules require advisers that are registered or applying for registration with the 
SEC, or that are reporting to the SEC as an exempt reporting adviser, to file 
electronically through the IARD system. See SEC rules 203-1 and 204-4. 
 
To file electronically, go to the IARD website (<www.iard.com>), which contains detailed 
instructions for advisers to follow when filing through the IARD. 
 
Complete Form ADV (Paper Version) on paper if: 
 
• You are filing with the SEC or a state securities authority that requires electronic filing, 
but you have been granted a continuing hardship exemption. Hardship exemptions are 
described in Instruction 17. 
 
• You are filing with a state securities authority that permits (but does not require) 
electronic filing and you do not file electronically. 
 
9. 
How do I get started filing electronically? 
 
First, obtain a copy of the IARD Entitlement Package from the following website: 
<http://www.iard.com/GetStarted.asp>. Second, request access to the IARD system for your 
firm by completing and submitting the IARD Entitlement Package. The IARD Entitlement 
Package explains how the form may be submitted. Mail the forms to: FINRA Entitlement 
Group, 9509 Key West Avenue, Rockville, MD 20850. 
 
When FINRA receives your Entitlement Package, they will assign a CRD number 
(identification number for your firm) and a user I.D. code and password (identification 
number and system password for the individual(s) who will submit Form ADV filings for 
your firm). Your firm may request an I.D. code and password for more than one individual. 
FINRA also will create a financial account for you from which the IARD will deduct filing 
fees and any state fees you are required to pay. If you already have a CRD account with 
FINRA, it will also serve as your IARD account; a separate account will not be established. 
 
Once you receive your CRD number, user I.D. code and password, and you have funded your 
account, you are ready to file electronically. 
 
Questions regarding the Entitlement Process should be addressed to FINRA at 240.386.4848. 
 
10. 
If I am applying for registration with the SEC, or amending my SEC registration, 
how do I make notice filings with the state securities authorities? 
 
If you are applying for registration with the SEC or are amending your SEC registration, one 
or more state securities authorities may require you to provide them with copies of your SEC 

8 
SEC 1707 (07-24)  File 1 of 5 
 
filings. We call these filings “notice filings.” Your notice filings will be sent electronically 
to the states that you check on Item 2.C. of Part 1A. The state securities authorities to which 
you send notice filings may charge fees, which will be deducted from the account you 
establish with FINRA. To determine which state securities authorities require SEC- 
registered advisers to submit notice filings and to pay fees, consult the relevant state 
investment adviser law or state securities authority. See General Instruction 1. 
 
If you are granted a continuing hardship exemption to file Form ADV on paper, FINRA will 
enter your filing into the IARD and your notice filings will be sent electronically to the state 
securities authorities that you check on Item 2.C. of Part 1A. 
 
11. 
I am registered with a state. When must I switch to SEC registration? 
 
If at the time of your annual updating amendment you meet at least one of the requirements 
for SEC registration in Item 2.A.(1) to (12) of Part 1A, you must apply for registration with 
the SEC within 90 days after you file the annual updating amendment. Once you register 
with the SEC, you are subject to SEC regulation, regardless of whether you remain registered 
with one or more states. See SEC rule 203A-1(b)(2). Each of your investment adviser 
representatives, however, may be subject to registration in those states in which the 
representative has a place of business. See Advisers Act section 203A(b)(1); SEC rule 
203A-3(a). For additional information, consult the investment adviser laws or the state 
securities authority for the particular state in which you are “doing business.” See General 
Instruction 1. 
 
12. 
I am registered with the SEC. When must I switch to registration with a state 
securities authority? 
If you check box 13 in Item 2.A. of Part 1A to report on your annual updating amendment 
that you are no longer eligible to register with the SEC, you must withdraw from SEC 
registration within 180 days after the end of your fiscal year by filing Form ADV-W. See 
SEC rule 203A-1(b)(2). You should consult state law or the state securities authority for the 
states in which you are “doing business” to determine if you are required to register in these 
states. See General Instruction 1. Until you file your Form ADV-W with the SEC, you will 
remain subject to SEC regulation, and you also will be subject to regulation in any states 
where you register. See SEC rule 203A-1(b)(2). 
 
13. 
I am an exempt reporting adviser. When must I submit my first report on Form 
ADV? 
 
• All exempt reporting advisers: 
You must submit your initial Form ADV filing within 60 days of relying on the 
exemption from registration under either section 203(l) of the Advisers Act as an adviser 
solely to one or more venture capital funds or section 203(m) of the Advisers Act because 
you act solely as an adviser to private funds and have assets under management in the 
United States of less than $150 million. 
 
• Additional instruction for advisers switching from being registered to being exempt 
reporting advisers: 

9 
SEC 1707 (07-24)  File 1 of 5 
 
If you are currently registered as an investment adviser (or have an application for 
registration pending) with the SEC or with a state securities authority, you must file a 
Form ADV-W to withdraw from registration in the jurisdictions where you are switching. 
You must submit the Form ADV-W before submitting your first report as an exempt 
reporting adviser. 
 
14. 
I am an exempt reporting adviser. Is it possible that I might be required to also 
register with or submit a report to a state securities authority? 
 
Yes, you may be required to register with or submit a report to one or more state securities 
authorities. If you are required to register with one or more state securities authorities, you 
must complete all of Form ADV. See General Instruction 3. If you are required to submit a 
report to one or more state securities authorities, check the box(es) in Item 2.C. of Part 1A 
next to the state(s) you would like to receive the report. Each of your investment adviser 
representatives may also be subject to registration requirements. For additional information 
about the requirements that may apply to you, consult the investment adviser laws or the 
state securities authority for the particular state in which you are “doing business.” See 
General Instruction 1. 
 
15. 
What do I do if I no longer meet the definition of “exempt reporting adviser”? 
 
• Advisers Switching to SEC Registration: 
 
o You may no longer be an exempt reporting adviser and may be required to register 
with the SEC if you wish to continue doing business as an investment adviser. For 
example, you may be relying on section 203(l) and wish to accept a client that is not a 
venture capital fund as defined in SEC rule 203(l)-1, or you may have been relying on 
SEC rule 203(m)-1 and reported in Section 2.B. of Schedule D to your annual 
updating amendment that you have private fund assets of $150 million or more. 
 
 If you are relying on section 203(l), unless you qualify for another exemption, 
you would violate the Advisers Act’s registration requirement if you accept a 
client that is not a venture capital fund as defined in SEC rule 203(l)-1 before 
the SEC approves your application for registration. You must submit your 
final report as an exempt reporting adviser and apply for SEC registration in 
the same filing. 
 
 If you were relying on SEC rule 203(m)-1 and you reported in Section 2.B. of 
Schedule D to your annual updating amendment that you have private fund 
assets of $150 million or more, you must register with the SEC unless you 
qualify for another exemption. If you have complied with all SEC reporting 
requirements applicable to an exempt reporting adviser as such, you have up 
to 90 days after filing your annual updating amendment to apply for SEC 
registration, and you may continue doing business as a private fund adviser 
during this time. You must submit your final report as an exempt reporting 
adviser and apply for SEC registration in the same filing. Unless you qualify 
for another exemption, you would violate the Advisers Act’s registration 
requirement if you accept a client that is not a private fund during this 

10 
SEC 1707 (07-24)  File 1 of 5 
 
transition period before the SEC approves your application for registration, 
and you must comply with all SEC reporting requirements applicable to an 
exempt reporting adviser as such during this 90-day transition period. If you 
have not complied with all SEC reporting requirements applicable to an 
exempt reporting adviser as such, this 90-day transition period is not available 
to you. Therefore, if the transition period is not available to you, and you do 
not qualify for another exemption, your application for registration must be 
approved by the SEC before you meet or exceed SEC rule 203(m)-1’s $150 
million asset threshold. 
 
o You will be deemed in compliance with the Form ADV filing and reporting 
requirements until the SEC approves or denies your application. If your application is 
approved, you will be able to continue business as a registered adviser. 
 
o If you register with the SEC, you may be subject to state notice filing requirements. 
To determine these requirements, consult the investment adviser laws or the state 
securities authority for the particular state in which you are “doing business.” See 
General Instruction 1. 
 
Note: If you are relying on SEC rule 203(m)-1 and you accept a client that is not a 
private fund, you will lose the exemption provided by SEC rule 203(m)-1 immediately. 
To avoid this result, you should apply for SEC registration in advance so that the SEC 
has approved your registration before you accept a client that is not a private fund. 
 
The 90-day transition period described above also applies to investment advisers with 
their principal offices and places of business outside of the United States with respect to 
their clients who are United States persons (e.g., the adviser would not be eligible for the 
90-day transition period if it accepted a client that is a United States person and is not a 
private fund). 
 
• Advisers Not Switching to SEC Registration: 
 
o You may no longer be an exempt reporting adviser but may not be required to 
register with the SEC or may be prohibited from doing so. For example, you may 
cease to do business as an investment adviser, become eligible for an exemption that 
does not require reporting, or be ineligible for SEC registration. In this case, you 
must submit a final report as an exempt reporting adviser to update only Item 1 of 
Part 1A of Form ADV. 
 
o You may be subject to state registration requirements. To determine these 
requirements, consult the investment adviser laws or the state securities authority for 
the particular state in which you are “doing business.” See General Instruction 1. 
 
16. 
Are there filing fees? 
 
Yes. These fees go to support and maintain the IARD. The IARD filing fees are in addition 
to any registration or other fee that may be required by state law. You must pay an IARD 
filing fee for your initial application, your initial report, and each annual updating 

11 
SEC 1707 (07-24)  File 1 of 5 
 
amendment. There is no filing fee for an other-than-annual amendment, a final report as an 
exempt reporting adviser, or Form ADV-W. The IARD filing fee schedule is published at 
<http://www.sec.gov/iard>; <http://www.nasaa.org>; and <http://www.iard.com>. 
 
If you are submitting a paper filing under a continuing hardship exemption (see Instruction 
17), you are required to pay an additional fee. The amount of the additional fee depends on 
whether you are filing Form ADV or Form ADV-W. (There is no additional fee for filings 
made on Form ADV-W.) The hardship filing fee schedule is available by contacting FINRA 
at 240.386.4848. 
 
17. 
What if I am not able to file electronically? 
 
If you are required to file electronically but cannot do so, you may be eligible for one of two 
types of hardship exemptions from the electronic filing requirements. 
 
• A temporary hardship exemption is available if you file electronically, but you 
encounter unexpected difficulties that prevent you from making a timely filing with the 
IARD, such as a computer malfunction or electrical outage. This exemption does not 
permit you to file on paper; instead it extends the deadline for an electronic filing for 
seven business days. See SEC rules 203-3(a) and 204-4(e). 
• A continuing hardship exemption may be granted if you are a small business and you 
can demonstrate that filing electronically would impose an undue hardship. You are a 
small business, and may be eligible for a continuing hardship exemption, if you are 
required to answer Item 12 of Part 1A (because you have assets under management of 
less than $25 million) and you are able to respond “no” to each question in Item 12. See 
SEC rule 0-7. 
 
If you have been granted a continuing hardship exemption, you must complete and 
submit the paper version of Form ADV to FINRA. FINRA will enter your responses into 
the IARD. As discussed in General Instruction 16, FINRA will charge you a fee to 
reimburse it for the expense of data entry. 
 
18. 
I am eligible to file on paper. How do I make a paper filing? 
 
When filing on paper, you must: 
 
• Type all of your responses. 
• Include your name (the same name you provide in response to Item 1.A. of Part 1A) and 
the date on every page. 
• If you are amending your Form ADV: 
o complete page 1 and circle the number of any item for which you are changing your 
response. 
o include your SEC 801-number (if you have one), or your 802-number (if you have 
one), and your CRD number (if you have one) on every page. 
o complete the amended item in full and circle the number of the item for which you 
are changing your response. 
o to amend Schedule A or Schedule B, complete and submit Schedule C. 

12 
SEC 1707 (07-24)  File 1 of 5 
 
Where you submit your paper filing depends on why you are eligible to file on paper: 
• If you are filing on paper because you have been granted a continuing hardship 
exemption, submit one manually signed Form ADV and one copy to: IARD Document 
Processing, FINRA, P.O. Box 9495, Gaithersburg, MD 20898-9495. 
 
If you complete Form ADV on paper and submit it to FINRA but you do not have a 
continuing hardship exemption, the submission will be returned to you. 
 
• If you are filing on paper because a state in which you are registered or in which you are 
applying for registration allows you to submit paper instead of electronic filings, submit 
one manually signed Form ADV and one copy to the appropriate state securities 
authorities. 
 
19. 
Who is required to file Form ADV-NR? 
 
Every non-resident general partner and managing agent of all SEC-registered advisers and 
exempt reporting advisers, whether or not the adviser is a resident in the United States, must 
file Form ADV-NR in connection with the adviser’s initial application or report. A general 
partner or managing agent of an SEC-registered adviser or exempt reporting adviser who 
becomes a non-resident after the adviser’s initial application or report has been submitted 
must file Form ADV-NR within 30 days. Absent a temporary hardship, Form ADV-NR must 
be filed electronically through IARD. 
 
Failure to file Form ADV-NR promptly may delay SEC consideration of your initial 
application. 
 
20. 
How is Form ADV-NR filed? 
 
Form ADV-NR is filed electronically with the Investment Adviser Registration Depository 
(IARD). Information for how to file with IARD is available on the SEC’s website at 
<www.sec.gov/iard> and on <www.iard.com>. 
 
 
Federal Information Law and Requirements 
 
Sections 203 and 204 of the Advisers Act [15 U.S.C. §§ 80b-3 and 80b-4] authorize the SEC to 
collect the information required by Form ADV. The SEC collects the information for regulatory 
purposes, such as deciding whether to grant registration. Filing Form ADV is mandatory for 
advisers who are required to register with the SEC and for exempt reporting advisers. The SEC 
maintains the information submitted on this form and makes it publicly available. The SEC may 
return forms that do not include required information. Intentional misstatements or omissions 
constitute federal criminal violations under 18 U.S.C. § 1001 and 15 U.S.C. § 80b-17. 
 
SEC’s Collection of Information 
 
An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of 

13 
SEC 1707 (07-24)  File 1 of 5 
 
information unless it displays a currently valid control number. The Advisers Act authorizes the 
SEC to collect the information on Form ADV from investment advisers. See 15 U.S.C. §§ 80b-3 
and 80b-4. Filing the form is mandatory. 
 
The form enables the SEC to register investment advisers and to obtain information from and 
about exempt reporting advisers. Every applicant for registration with the SEC as an adviser, 
and every exempt reporting adviser, must file the form. See 17 C.F.R. §§ 275.203-1 and 204-4. 
By accepting a form, however, the SEC does not make a finding that it has been completed or 
submitted correctly. The form is filed annually by every adviser, no later than 90 days after the 
end of its fiscal year, to amend its registration or its report. It is also filed during the year to 
reflect material changes. See 17 C.F.R. § 275.204-1. The SEC maintains the information on the 
form and makes it publicly available through the IARD. 
 
Anyone may send the SEC comments on the accuracy of the burden estimate on page 1 of the 
form, as well as suggestions for reducing the burden. The Office of Management and Budget has 
reviewed this collection of information under 44 U.S.C. § 3507. 
The information contained in the form is part of a system of records subject to the Privacy Act of 
1974, as amended. The SEC has published in the Federal Register the Privacy Act System of 
Records Notice for these records. 

14 
SEC 1707 (07-24)  File 1 of 5 
 
FORM ADV (Paper Version) 
• UNIFORM APPLICATION FOR INVESTMENT ADVISER REGISTRATION 
AND 
• REPORT BY EXEMPT REPORTING ADVISERS 
Form ADV: Instructions for Part 1A 
These instructions explain how to complete certain items in Part 1A of Form ADV. 
 
1. Item 1: Identifying Information 
 
Separately Identifiable Department or Division of a Bank. If you are a “separately 
identifiable department or division” (SID) of a bank, answer Item 1.A. with the full legal name 
of your bank, and answer Item 1.B. with your own name (the name of the department or 
division) and all names under which you conduct your advisory business. In addition, your 
principal office and place of business in Item 1.F. should be the principal office at which you 
conduct your advisory business. In response to Item 1.I., the website addresses and social media 
information you list on Schedule D should be those that provide information about your own 
activities, rather than general information about your bank. 
 
2. Item 2: SEC Registration and SEC Report by Exempt Reporting Advisers 
 
If you are registered or applying for registration with the SEC, you must indicate in Item 2.A. 
why you are eligible to register with the SEC by checking at least one of the boxes. 
a. Item 2.A.(1): Adviser with Regulatory Assets Under Management of $100 Million 
or More. You may check box 1 only if your response to Item 5.F.(2)(c) is $100 million 
or more, or you are filing an annual updating amendment with the SEC and your 
response to Item 5.F.(2)(c) is $90 million or more. While you may register with the SEC 
if your regulatory assets under management are at least $100 million but less than $110 
million, you must apply for registration with the SEC if your regulatory assets under 
management are $110 million or more. If you are a SEC-registered adviser, you may 
remain registered with the SEC if your regulatory assets under management are $90 
million or more. See SEC rule 203A-1(a). Part 1A Instruction 5.b. explains how to 
calculate your regulatory assets under management. 
 
If you are a state-registered adviser and you report on your annual updating amendment 
that your regulatory assets under management increased to $100 million or more, you 
may register with the SEC. If your regulatory assets under management increased to 
$110 million or more, you must apply for registration with the SEC within 90 days after 
you file that annual updating amendment. See SEC rule 203A-1(b)(1) and Form ADV 
General Instruction 11. 
 
b. Item 2.A.(2): Mid-Sized Adviser. You may check box 2 only if your response to Item 
5.F.(2)(c) is $25 million or more but less than $100 million, and you satisfy one of the 
requirements below. Part 1A Instruction 5.b. explains how to calculate your regulatory 
assets under management. 

15 
SEC 1707 (07-24)  File 1 of 5 
 
 
You must register with the SEC if you meet at least one of the following requirements: 
 
• You are not required to be registered as an investment adviser with the state securities 
authority of the state where you maintain your principal office and place of business 
pursuant to that state’s investment adviser laws. If you are exempt from registration 
with that state or are excluded from the definition of investment adviser in that state, 
you must register with the SEC. You should consult the investment adviser laws or 
the state securities authority for the particular state in which you maintain your 
principal office and place of business to determine if you are required to register in 
that state. See General Instruction 1. 
 
• You are not subject to examination by the state securities authority of the state where 
you maintain your principal office and place of business. To determine whether such 
state securities authority does not conduct such examinations, see: 
https://www.sec.gov/divisions/investment/midsizedadviserinfo.htm 
See section 203A(a)(2) of the Advisers Act. 
 
c. Item 2.A.(5): Adviser to an Investment Company. You may check box 5 only if you 
currently provide advisory services under an investment advisory contract to an 
investment company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940 and the 
investment company is operational (i.e., has assets and shareholders, other than just the 
organizing shareholders). See sections 203A(a)(1)(B) and 203A(a)(2)(A) of the Advisers 
Act. Advising investors about the merits of investing in mutual funds or recommending 
particular mutual funds does not make you eligible to check this box. 
 
d. Item 2.A.(6): Adviser to a Business Development Company. You may check box 6 
only if your response to Item 5.F.(2)(c) is $25 million or more of regulatory assets under 
management, and you currently provide advisory services under an investment advisory 
contract to a company that has elected to be a business development company pursuant to 
section 54 of the Investment Company Act of 1940, that has not withdrawn the election, 
and that is operational (i.e., has assets and shareholders, other than just the organizing 
shareholders). See section 203A(a)(2)(A) of the Advisers Act. Part 1A Instruction 5.b. 
explains how to calculate your regulatory assets under management. 
 
e. Item 2.A.(7): Pension Consultant. You may check box 7 only if you are eligible for 
the pension consultant exemption from the prohibition on SEC registration. 
 
• You are eligible for this exemption if you provided investment advice to employee 
benefit plans, governmental plans, or church plans with respect to assets having an 
aggregate value of $200 million or more during the 12-month period that ended 
within 90 days of filing this Form ADV. You are not eligible for this exemption if 
you only advise plan participants on allocating their investments within their pension 
plans. See SEC rule 203A-2(a). 
 
• To calculate the value of assets for purposes of this exemption, aggregate the assets of 

16 
SEC 1707 (07-24)  File 1 of 5 
 
the plans for which you provided advisory services at the end of the 12-month period. 
If you provided advisory services to other plans during the 12-month period, but your 
employment or contract terminated before the end of the 12-month period, you also 
may include the value of those assets. 
 
f. Item 2.A.(8): Related Adviser. You may check box 8 only if you are eligible for the 
related adviser exemption from the prohibition on SEC registration. See SEC rule 203A- 
2(b). You are eligible for this exemption if you control, are controlled by, or are under 
common control with an investment adviser that is registered with the SEC, and you have 
the same principal office and place of business as that other investment adviser. Note 
that you may not rely on the SEC registration of an Internet adviser under rule 203A-2(e) 
in establishing eligibility for this exemption. See SEC rule 203A-2(e)(1)(iii). If you 
check box 8, you also must complete Section 2.A.(8) of Schedule D. 
 
g. Item 2.A.(9): Adviser Expecting to be Eligible for Registration within 120 Days. 
You may check box 9 only if you are eligible for the exemption from the prohibition on 
SEC registration available to advisers expecting to be eligible for SEC registration within 
120 days, such as a newly formed adviser. See SEC rule 203A-2(c). You are eligible for 
this exemption if immediately before you file your application for registration with the 
SEC: 
 
• you were not registered or required to be registered with the SEC or a state securities 
authority; and 
 
• you have a reasonable expectation that you will be eligible to register with the SEC 
within 120 days after the date that your registration with the SEC becomes effective. 
 
If you check box 9, you also must complete Section 2.A.(9) of Schedule D. 
 
You must file an amendment to Part 1A of your Form ADV that updates your response to 
Item 2.A. within 120 days after the SEC declares your registration effective. You may 
not check box 9 on your amendment; since this exemption is available only if you are not 
registered, you may not “re-rely” on this exemption. If you indicate on that amendment 
(by checking box 13) that you are not eligible to register with the SEC, you also must file 
a Form ADV-W to withdraw your SEC registration no later than 120 days after your 
registration was declared effective. You should contact the appropriate state securities 
authority to determine how long it may take to become state-registered sufficiently in 
advance of when you are required to file Form ADV-W to withdraw from SEC 
registration. 
Note: If you expect to be eligible for SEC registration because of the amount of your 
regulatory assets under management, that amount must be $100 million or more no later 
than 120 days after your registration is declared effective. 
 
h. Item 2.A.(10): Multi-State Adviser. You may check box 10 only if you are eligible for 
the multi-state adviser exemption from the prohibition on SEC registration. See SEC rule 
203A-2(d). You are eligible for this exemption if you are required to register as an 
investment adviser with the state securities authorities of 15 or more states. If you check 

17 
SEC 1707 (07-24)  File 1 of 5 
 
box 10, you must complete Section 2.A.(10) of Schedule D. You must complete Section 
2.A.(10) of Schedule D in each annual updating amendment you submit. 
 
If you check box 10, you also must: 
• create and maintain a list of the states in which, but for this exemption, you would be 
required to register; 
• update this list each time you submit an annual updating amendment in which you 
continue to represent that you are eligible for this exemption; and 
• maintain the list in an easily accessible place for a period of not less than five years 
from each date on which you indicate that you are eligible for the exemption. 
 
If, at the time you file your annual updating amendment, you are required to register in 
less than 15 states and you are not otherwise eligible to register with the SEC, you must 
check box 13 in Item 2.A. You also must file a Form ADV-W to withdraw your SEC 
registration. See Part 1A Instruction 2.j. 
 
i. Item 2.A.(11): Internet Adviser. You may check box 11 only if you are eligible for the 
Internet adviser exemption from the prohibition on SEC registration. See SEC rule 
203A-2(e). If you check box 11, you must complete Section 2.A.(11) of Schedule D. 
You are eligible for this exemption if: 
 
• You provide investment advice to all of your clients exclusively through an 
operational interactive website at all times during which you rely on rule 203A-
2(e). Other forms of online or Internet investment advice do not qualify for this 
exemption; 
• 
You maintain a record demonstrating that you provide investment advice to your clients 
exclusively through an operational interactive website in accordance with these limits. 
 
j. Item 2.A.(13): Adviser No Longer Eligible to Remain Registered with the SEC. 
You must check box 13 if: 
 
• you are registered with the SEC; 
• you are filing an annual updating amendment to Form ADV in which you indicate in 
response to Item 5.F.(2)(c) that you have regulatory assets under management of less 
than $90 million; and 
• you are not eligible to check any other box (other than box 13) in Item 2.A. (and are 
therefore no longer eligible to remain registered with the SEC). 
 
You must withdraw from SEC registration within 180 days after the end of your fiscal 
year by filing Form ADV-W. Until you file your Form ADV-W, you will remain subject 
to SEC regulation, and you also will be subject to regulation in the states in which you 
register. See SEC rule 203A-1(b)(2). 
 
k. Item 2.B.: Reporting by Exempt Reporting Advisers. You may check box 2.B.(1) only 
if you qualify for the exemption from SEC registration as an adviser solely to one or 
more venture capital funds. See SEC rule 203(l)-1. You may check box 2.B.(2) only if 

18 
SEC 1707 (07-24)  File 1 of 5 
 
you qualify for the exemption from SEC registration because you act solely as an adviser 
to private funds and have assets under management in the United States of less than $150 
million. See SEC rule 203(m)-1. You may check both boxes to indicate that you qualify 
for both exemptions. You should check box 2.B.(3) if you act solely as an adviser to 
private funds but you are no longer eligible to check box 2.B.(2) because you have assets 
under management in the United States of $150 million or more. If you check box 
2.B.(2) or (3), you also must complete Section 2.B. of Schedule D. 
 
3. Item 3: Form of Organization 
 
If you are a “separately identifiable department or division” (SID) of a bank, answer Item 3.A. 
by checking “other.” In the space provided, specify that you are a “SID of” and indicate the 
form of organization of your bank. Answer Items 3.B. and 3.C. with information about your 
bank. 
 
4. Item 4: Successions 
 
a. Succession of an SEC-Registered Adviser. If you (1) have taken over the business of 
an investment adviser or (2) have changed your structure or legal status (e.g., form of 
organization or state of incorporation), a new organization has been created, which has 
registration obligations under the Advisers Act. There are different ways to fulfill these 
obligations. You may rely on the registration provisions discussed in the General 
Instructions, or you may be able to rely on special registration provisions for “successors” 
to SEC-registered advisers, which may ease the transition to the successor adviser’s 
registration. 
 
To determine if you may rely on these provisions, review “Registration of Successors to 
Broker-Dealers and Investment Advisers,” Investment Advisers Act Release No. 1357 
(Dec. 28, 1992). If you have taken over an adviser, follow Part 1A Instruction 4.a.(1), 
Succession by Application. If you have changed your structure or legal status, follow 
Part 1A, Instruction 4.a.(2), Succession by Amendment. If either (1) you are a 
“separately identifiable department or division” (SID) of a bank that is currently 
registered as an investment adviser, and you are taking over your bank’s advisory 
business; or (2) you are a SID currently registered as an investment adviser, and your 
bank is taking over your advisory business, then follow Part 1A Instruction 4.a.(1), 
Succession by Application. 
 
(1) Succession by Application. If you are not registered with the SEC as an adviser, 
and you are acquiring or assuming substantially all of the assets and liabilities of the 
advisory business of an SEC-registered adviser, file a new application for registration 
on Form ADV. You will receive new registration numbers. You must file the new 
application within 30 days after the succession. On the application, make sure you 
check “yes” to Item 4.A., enter the date of the succession in Item 4.B., and complete 
Section 4 of Schedule D. 
 
Until the SEC declares your new registration effective, you may rely on the 
registration of the adviser you are acquiring, but only if the adviser you are acquiring 

19 
SEC 1707 (07-24)  File 1 of 5 
 
is no longer conducting advisory activities. Once your new registration is effective, a 
Form ADV-W must be filed with the SEC to withdraw the registration of the acquired 
adviser. 
 
(2) Succession by Amendment. If you are a new investment adviser formed solely as a 
result of a change in form of organization, a reorganization, or a change in the 
composition of a partnership, and there has been no practical change in control or 
management, you may amend the registration of the registered investment adviser to 
reflect these changes rather than file a new application. You will keep the same 
registration numbers, and you should not file a Form ADV-W. On the amendment, 
make sure you check “yes” to Item 4.A., enter the date of the succession in Item 4.B., 
and complete Section 4 of Schedule D. You must submit the amendment within 30 
days after the change or reorganization. 
 
b. Succession of a State-Registered Adviser. If you (1) have taken over the business of an 
investment adviser or (2) have changed your structure or legal status (e.g., form of 
organization or state of incorporation), a new organization has been created, which has 
registration obligations under state investment adviser laws. There may be different ways 
to fulfill these obligations. You should contact each state in which you are registered to 
determine that state’s requirements for successor registration. See Form ADV General 
Instruction 1. 
 
5. Item 5: Information About Your Advisory Business 
 
a. Newly-Formed Advisers: Several questions in Item 5 that ask about your advisory 
business assume that you have been operating your advisory business for some time. 
Your response to these questions should reflect your current advisory business (i.e., at the 
time you file your Form ADV), with the following exceptions: 
 
• base your response to Item 5.E. on the types of compensation you expect to accept; 
• base your response to Item 5.G. and Item 5.J. on the types of advisory services you 
expect to provide during the next year; and 
• skip Item 5.H. 
 
b. Item 5.F.: Calculating Your Regulatory Assets Under Management. In determining 
the amount of your regulatory assets under management, include the securities portfolios 
for which you provide continuous and regular supervisory or management services as of 
the date of filing this Form ADV. 
 
(1) Securities Portfolios. An account is a securities portfolio if at least 50% of the total 
value of the account consists of securities. For purposes of this 50% test, you may 
treat cash and cash equivalents (i.e., bank deposits, certificates of deposit, bankers 
acceptances, and similar bank instruments) as securities. You must include securities 
portfolios that are: 
 
(a) your family or proprietary accounts; 
 

20 
SEC 1707 (07-24)  File 1 of 5 
 
(b) accounts for which you receive no compensation for your services; and 
 
(c) accounts of clients who are not United States persons. 
 
For purposes of this definition, treat all of the assets of a private fund as a securities 
portfolio, regardless of the nature of such assets. For accounts of private funds, 
moreover, include in the securities portfolio any uncalled commitment pursuant to 
which a person is obligated to acquire an interest in, or make a capital contribution to, 
the private fund. 
 
(2) Value of Portfolio. Include the entire value of each securities portfolio for which 
you provide continuous and regular supervisory or management services. If you 
provide continuous and regular supervisory or management services for only a 
portion of a securities portfolio, include as regulatory assets under management only 
that portion of the securities portfolio for which you provide such services. Exclude, 
for example, the portion of an account: 
 
(a) under management by another person; or 
 
(b) that consists of real estate or businesses whose operations you “manage” on 
behalf of a client but not as an investment. 
 
Do not deduct any outstanding indebtedness or other accrued but unpaid liabilities. 
 
(3) Continuous and Regular Supervisory or Management Services. 
 
General Criteria. You provide continuous and regular supervisory or management 
services with respect to an account if: 
(a) you have discretionary authority over and provide ongoing supervisory or 
management services with respect to the account; or 
 
(b) you do not have discretionary authority over the account, but you have ongoing 
responsibility to select or make recommendations, based upon the needs of the 
client, as to specific securities or other investments the account may purchase or 
sell and, if such recommendations are accepted by the client, you are responsible 
for arranging or effecting the purchase or sale. 
 
Factors. You should consider the following factors in evaluating whether you 
provide continuous and regular supervisory or management services to an account. 
 
(a) Terms of the advisory contract. If you agree in an advisory contract to provide 
ongoing management services, this suggests that you provide these services for 
the account. Other provisions in the contract, or your actual management 
practices, however, may suggest otherwise. 
 
(b) Form of compensation. If you are compensated based on the average value of 
the client’s assets you manage over a specified period of time, that suggests that 

21 
SEC 1707 (07-24)  File 1 of 5 
 
you provide continuous and regular supervisory or management services for the 
account. If you receive compensation in a manner similar to either of the 
following, that suggests you do not provide continuous and regular supervisory or 
management services for the account 
 
(i) you are compensated based upon the time spent with a client during a client 
visit; or 
 
(ii) you are paid a retainer based on a percentage of assets covered by a financial 
plan. 
 
(c) Management practices. The extent to which you actively manage assets or 
provide advice bears on whether the services you provide are continuous and 
regular supervisory or management services. The fact that you make infrequent 
trades (e.g., based on a “buy and hold” strategy) does not mean your services are 
not “continuous and regular.” 
 
Examples. You may provide continuous and regular supervisory or management 
services for an account if you: 
 
(a) have discretionary authority to allocate client assets among various mutual 
funds; 
 
(b) do not have discretionary authority, but provide the same allocation services, and 
satisfy the criteria set forth in Instruction 5.b.(3); 
(c) allocate assets among other managers (a “manager of managers”), but only if you 
have discretionary authority to hire and fire managers and reallocate assets 
among them; or 
 
(d) you are a broker-dealer and treat the account as a brokerage account, but only if 
you have discretionary authority over the account. 
 
You do not provide continuous and regular supervisory or management services for 
an account if you: 
 
(a) provide market timing recommendations (i.e., to buy or sell), but have no ongoing 
management responsibilities; 
 
(b) provide only impersonal investment advice (e.g., market newsletters); 
 
(c) make an initial asset allocation, without continuous and regular monitoring and 
reallocation; or 
 
(d) provide advice on an intermittent or periodic basis (such as upon client request, in 
response to a market event, or on a specific date (e.g., the account is reviewed and 
adjusted quarterly)). 
 

22 
SEC 1707 (07-24)  File 1 of 5 
 
(4) Value of Regulatory Assets Under Management. Determine your regulatory assets 
under management based on the current market value of the assets as determined 
within 90 days prior to the date of filing this Form ADV. Determine market value 
using the same method you used to report account values to clients or to calculate 
fees for investment advisory services. 
 
In the case of a private fund, determine the current market value (or fair value) of the 
private fund’s assets and the contractual amount of any uncalled commitment 
pursuant to which a person is obligated to acquire an interest in, or make a capital 
contribution to, the private fund. 
 
(5) Example. This is an example of the method of determining whether an account of a 
client other than a private fund may be included as regulatory assets under 
management. 
 
The client’s portfolio consists of the following: 
$6,000,000 
stocks and bonds 
$1,000,000 
cash and cash equivalents 
$3,000,000 
non-securities (collectibles, commodities, real estate, etc.) 
$10,000,000 
Total Assets 
 
First, is the account a securities portfolio? The account is a securities portfolio 
because securities as well as cash and cash equivalents (which you have chosen to 
include as securities) ($6,000,000 + $1,000,000 = $7,000,000) comprise at least 50% of 
the value of the account (here, 70%). (See Instruction 5.b.(1)). 
 
Second, does the account receive continuous and regular supervisory or 
management services? The entire account is managed on a discretionary basis and 
is provided ongoing supervisory and management services, and therefore receives 
continuous and regular supervisory or management services. (See Instruction 
5.b.(3)). 
 
Third, what is the entire value of the account? The entire value of the account 
($10,000,000) is included in the calculation of the adviser’s total regulatory assets 
under management. 
 
6. Item 7: Financial Industry Affiliations and Private Fund Reporting 
 
Item 7.A. and Section 7.A. of Schedule D ask questions about you and your related persons’ 
financial industry affiliations. If you are filing an umbrella registration, you should not check 
Item 7.A.(2) with respect to your relying advisers, and you do not have to complete Section 7.A. 
in Schedule D for your relying advisers. You should complete Schedule R with respect to your 
relying advisers. Item 7.B. and Section 7.B. of Schedule D ask questions about the private funds 
that you advise. You are required to complete a Section 7.B.(1) of Schedule D for each private 
fund that you advise, except in certain circumstances described under Item 7.B. and below. 
 
a. If your principal office and place of business is outside the United States, for purposes of 

23 
SEC 1707 (07-24)  File 1 of 5 
 
Item 7 and Section 7.B. of Schedule D you may disregard any private fund that, during 
your last fiscal year, was not a United States person, was not offered in the United States, 
and was not beneficially owned by any United States person. 
 
b. When filing Section 7.B.(1) of Schedule D for a private fund, you must acquire an 
identification number for the fund by logging onto the IARD website and using the 
private fund identification number generator. You must continue to use the same 
identification number whenever you amend Section 7.B.(1) for that fund. If you file a 
Section 7.B.(1) for a private fund for which an identification number has already been 
acquired by another adviser, you must not acquire a new identification number, but must 
instead utilize the existing number. If you choose to complete a single Section 7.B.(1) for 
a master-feeder arrangement under Instruction 6.d. below, you must acquire an 
identification number also for each feeder fund. 
 
c. If any private fund has issued two or more series (or classes) of equity interests whose 
values are determined with respect to separate portfolios of securities and other assets, 
then each such series (or class) should be regarded as a separate private fund. In Section 
7.B.(1) and 7.B.(2) of Schedule D, next to the name of the private fund, list the name and 
identification number of the specific series (or class) for which you are filing the sections. 
This only applies with respect to series (or classes) that you manage as if they were 
separate funds and not a fund’s side pockets or similar arrangements. 
d. In the case of a master-feeder arrangement (see questions 6-7 of Section 7.B.(1) of 
Schedule D), instead of completing a Section 7.B.(1) for each of the master fund and each 
feeder fund, you may complete a single Section 7.B.(1) for the master-feeder 
arrangement under the name of the master fund if the answers to questions 8, 10, 21 and 
23 through 28 are the same for all of the feeder funds (or, in the case of questions 24 and 
25, if the feeder funds do not use a prime broker or custodian). If you choose to complete 
a single Section 7.B.(1), you should disregard the feeder funds, except for the following: 
 
(1) Question 11: State the gross assets for the master-feeder arrangement as a whole. 
 
(2) Question 12: List the lowest minimum investment commitment applicable to any of 
the master fund and the feeder funds. 
 
(3) Questions 13-16: Answer by aggregating all investors in the master-feeder 
arrangement (but do not count the feeder funds themselves as investors). 
 
(4) Questions 19-20: For purposes of these questions, the private fund means any of the 
master fund or the feeder funds. In answering the questions, moreover, disregard the 
feeder funds’ investment in the master fund. 
 
(5) Question 22: List all of the Form D SEC file numbers of any of the master fund and 
feeder funds. 
 
e. Additional Instructions: 
 
(1) Question 9: Investment in Registered Investment Companies: For purposes of 

24 
SEC 1707 (07-24)  File 1 of 5 
 
this question, disregard any open-end management investment company regulated as 
a money market fund under rule 2a-7 under the Investment Company Act if the 
private fund invests in such a company in reliance on rule 12d1-1 under the same Act. 
 
(2) Question 10: Type of Private Fund: For purposes of this question, the following 
definitions apply: 
 
“Hedge fund” means any private fund (other than a securitized asset fund): 
 
(a) with respect to which one or more investment advisers (or related persons of 
investment advisers) may be paid a performance fee or allocation calculated 
by taking into account unrealized gains (other than a fee or allocation the 
calculation of which may take into account unrealized gains solely for the 
purpose of reducing such fee or allocation to reflect net unrealized losses); 
 
(b) that may borrow an amount in excess of one-half of its net asset value 
(including any committed capital) or may have gross notional exposure in 
excess of twice its net asset value (including any committed capital); or 
(c) that may sell securities or other assets short or enter into similar transactions 
(other than for the purpose of hedging currency exposure or managing 
duration). 
 
A commodity pool is categorized as a hedge fund solely for purposes of this question. 
For purposes of this definition, do not net long and short positions. Include any 
borrowings or notional exposure of another person that are guaranteed by the private 
fund or that the private fund may otherwise be obligated to satisfy. 
 
“Liquidity fund” means any private fund that seeks to generate income by 
investing in a portfolio of short-term obligations in order to maintain a stable net 
asset value per unit or minimize principal volatility for investors. 
 
“Private equity fund” means any private fund that is not a hedge fund, liquidity 
fund, real estate fund, securitized asset fund, or venture capital fund and does not 
provide investors with redemption rights in the ordinary course. 
 
“Real estate fund” means any private fund that is not a hedge fund, that does not 
provide investors with redemption rights in the ordinary course, and that invests 
primarily in real estate and real estate related assets. 
 
“Securitized asset fund” means any private fund whose primary purpose is to 
issue asset backed securities and whose investors are primarily debt-holders. 
 
“Venture capital fund” means any private fund meeting the definition of venture 
capital fund in rule 203(l)-1 under the Advisers Act. 
 
“Other private fund” means any private fund that is not a hedge fund, liquidity 
fund, private equity fund, real estate fund, securitized asset fund, or venture 

25 
SEC 1707 (07-24)  File 1 of 5 
 
capital fund. 
 
(3) Question 11: Gross Assets. Report the assets of the private fund that you would 
include in calculating your regulatory assets under management according to 
Instruction 5.b. above. 
 
(4) Questions 19-20: Other clients’ investments: For purposes of these questions, 
disregard any feeder fund’s investment in its master fund. (See questions 6-7 for 
the definition of “master fund” and “feeder fund”). 
 
7. Item 10: Control Persons 
 
If you are a “separately identifiable department or division” (SID) of a bank, identify on 
Schedule A your bank’s executive officers who are directly engaged in managing, directing, or 
supervising your investment advisory activities, and list any other persons designated by your 
bank’s board of directors as responsible for the day-to-day conduct of your investment advisory 
activities, including supervising employees performing investment advisory activities. 
 
8. Additional Information 
 
If you believe your response to an item in Form ADV Part 1A requires further explanation, or if 
you wish to provide additional information, you may do so on Schedule D, in the Miscellaneous 
section. Completion of this section is optional. 

26 
 
GLOSSARY OF TERMS 
1. Advertisement: (i) Any direct or indirect communication an investment adviser makes to 
more than one person, or to one or more persons if the communication includes hypothetical 
performance, that offers the investment adviser’s investment advisory services with regard to 
securities to prospective clients or investors in a private fund advised by the investment 
adviser or offers new investment advisory services with regard to securities to current clients 
or investors in a private fund advised by the investment adviser, but does not include: (A) 
extemporaneous, live, oral communications; (B) information contained in a statutory or 
regulatory notice, filing, or other required communication, provided that such information is 
reasonably designed to satisfy the requirements of such notice, filing, or other required 
communication; or (C) a communication that includes hypothetical performance that is 
provided: (1) in response to an unsolicited request for such information from a prospective or 
current client or investor in a private fund advised by the investment adviser; or (2) to a 
prospective or current investor in a private fund advised by the investment adviser in a one- 
on-one communication; and (ii) any endorsement or testimonial for which an investment 
adviser provides compensation, directly or indirectly, but does not include any information 
contained in a statutory or regulatory notice, filing, or other required communication, 
provided that such information is reasonably designed to satisfy the requirements of such 
notice, filing, or other required communication. [Used in: Part 1A, Item 5][Effective May 4, 
2021, pursuant to Investment Adviser Marketing, Investment Advisers Act Release No. 5653 
(Dec. 22, 2020) [86 FR 13024 (Mar. 5, 2021)].] 
 
2. Advisory Affiliate: Your advisory affiliates are (1) all of your officers, partners, or directors 
(or any person performing similar functions); (2) all persons directly or indirectly 
controlling or controlled by you; and (3) all of your current employees (other than 
employees performing only clerical, administrative, support or similar functions). 
 
If you are a “separately identifiable department or division” (SID) of a bank, your advisory 
affiliates are: (1) all of your bank’s employees who perform your investment advisory 
activities (other than clerical or administrative employees); (2) all persons designated by your 
bank’s board of directors as responsible for the day-to-day conduct of your investment 
advisory activities (including supervising the employees who perform investment advisory 
activities); (3) all persons who directly or indirectly control your bank, and all persons 
whom you control in connection with your investment advisory activities; and (4) all other 
persons who directly manage any of your investment advisory activities (including directing, 
supervising or performing your advisory activities), all persons who directly or indirectly 
control those management functions, and all persons whom you control in connection with 
those management functions. [Used in: Part 1A, Items 7, 11, DRPs; Part 1B, Item 2] 
 
3. Annual Updating Amendment: Within 90 days after your firm’s fiscal year end, your firm 
must file an “annual updating amendment,” which is an amendment to your firm’s Form 
ADV that reaffirms the eligibility information contained in Item 2 of Part 1A and updates the 
responses to any other item for which the information is no longer accurate. [Used in: 
General Instructions; Part 1A, Instructions, Introductory Text, Item 2; Part 2A, Instructions, 
Appendix 1 Instructions; Part 2B, Instructions] 
4. Borrowings: Borrowings include secured borrowings and unsecured borrowings, 

27 
 
collectively. Secured borrowings are obligations for borrowed money in respect of which the 
borrower has posted collateral or other credit support and should include any reverse repos 
(i.e., any sale of securities coupled with an agreement to repurchase the same (or similar) 
securities at a later date at an agreed price). Unsecured borrowings are obligations for 
borrowed money in respect of which the borrower has not posted collateral or other credit 
support. [Used in: Part 1A, Instructions, Item 5, Schedule D] 
 
5. Brochure: A written disclosure statement that you must provide to clients and prospective 
clients. See SEC rule 204-3; Form ADV, Part 2A. [Used in: General Instructions; Used 
throughout Part 2] 
 
6. Brochure Supplement: A written disclosure statement containing information about certain 
of your supervised persons that your firm is required by Part 2B of Form ADV to provide to 
clients and prospective clients. See SEC rule 204-3; Form ADV, Part 2B. [Used in: 
General Instructions; Used throughout Part 2] 
 
7. Charged: Being accused of a crime in a formal complaint, information, or indictment (or 
equivalent formal charge). [Used in: Part 1A, Item 11; DRPs] 
 
8. Client: Any of your firm’s investment advisory clients. This term includes clients from 
which your firm receives no compensation, such as family members of your supervised 
persons. If your firm also provides other services (e.g., accounting services), this term does 
not include clients that are not investment advisory clients. [Used throughout Form ADV 
and Form ADV-W] 
 
9. Commodity Derivative: Exposures to commodities that you do not hold physically, 
whether held synthetically or through derivatives (whether cash or physically settled). [Used 
in: Part 1A, Schedule D] 
 
10. Control: The power, directly or indirectly, to direct the management or policies of a person, 
whether through ownership of securities, by contract, or otherwise. 
• Each of your firm’s officers, partners, or directors exercising executive responsibility (or 
persons having similar status or functions) is presumed to control your firm. 
• A person is presumed to control a corporation if the person: (i) directly or indirectly has 
the right to vote 25 percent or more of a class of the corporation’s voting securities; or (ii) 
has the power to sell or direct the sale of 25 percent or more of a class of the 
corporation’s voting securities. 
• A person is presumed to control a partnership if the person has the right to receive upon 
dissolution, or has contributed, 25 percent or more of the capital of the partnership. 
• A person is presumed to control a limited liability company (“LLC”) if the person: (i) 
directly or indirectly has the right to vote 25 percent or more of a class of the interests 
of the LLC; (ii) has the right to receive upon dissolution, or has contributed, 25 
percent or more of the capital of the LLC; or (iii) is2a9n elected manager of the LLC. 
• A person is presumed to control a trust if the person is a trustee or managing agent of 

28 
 
the trust. 
[Used in: General Instructions; Part 1A, Instructions, Items 2, 7, 10, 11, 12, Schedules A, B, 
C, D, R; DRPs] 
 
11. Credit Derivative: Single name credit default swap, including loan credit default swap, 
credit default swap referencing a standardized basket of credit entities, including credit 
default swap indices and indices referencing leveraged loans, and credit default swap 
referencing bespoke basket or tranche of collateralized debt obligations and collateralized 
loan obligations (including cash flow and synthetic) other than mortgage backed securities. 
[Used in: Part 1A, Schedule D] 
 
12. Custody: Holding, directly or indirectly, client funds or securities, or having any authority 
to obtain possession of them. You have custody if a related person holds, directly or 
indirectly, client funds or securities, or has any authority to obtain possession of them, in 
connection with advisory services you provide to clients. Custody includes: 
 
• Possession of client funds or securities (but not of checks drawn by clients and made 
payable to third parties) unless you receive them inadvertently and you return them to the 
sender promptly, but in any case within three business days of receiving them; 
 
• Any arrangement (including a general power of attorney) under which you are authorized 
or permitted to withdraw client funds or securities maintained with a custodian upon your 
instruction to the custodian; and 
 
• Any capacity (such as general partner of a limited partnership, managing member of a 
limited liability company or a comparable position for another type of pooled investment 
vehicle, or trustee of a trust) that gives you or your supervised person legal ownership of 
or access to client funds or securities. 
 
[Used in: Part 1A, Item 9; Part 1B, Instructions, Item 2; Part 2A, Items 15, 18] 
 
13. Digital Investment Advisory Service: Investment advice to clients that is generated by 
the operational interactive website’s software-based models, algorithms, or applications 
based on personal information each client supplies through the operational interactive 
website. 
 
14. Discretionary Authority or Discretionary Basis: Your firm has discretionary authority or 
manages assets on a discretionary basis if it has the authority to decide which securities to 
purchase and sell for the client. Your firm also has discretionary authority if it has the 
authority to decide which investment advisers to retain on behalf of the client. [Used in: 
Part 1A, Instructions, Item 8; Part 1B, Instructions; Part 2A, Items 4, 16, 18; Part 2B, 
Instructions] 
 
15. Employee: This term includes an independent contractor who performs advisory functions 
on your behalf. [Used in: Part 1A, Instructions, Items 1, 5, 11; Part 2B, Instructions] 
 

29 
 
16. Endorsement: Any statement by a person other than a current client or investor in a private 
fund advised by the investment adviser that: (i) indicates approval, support, or 
recommendation of the investment adviser or its supervised persons or describes that 
indirectly solicits any current or prospective client or investor to be a client of, or an investor 
in a private fund advised by, the investment adviser; or (iii) refers any current or prospective 
client of, or an investor in a private fund advised by, the investment adviser. [Used in: Part 
1A, Item 5][Effective May 4, 2021, pursuant to Investment Adviser Marketing, Investment 
Advisers Act Release No. 5653 (Dec. 22, 2020) [86 FR 13024 (Mar. 5, 2021)].] 
 
17. Enjoined: This term includes being subject to a mandatory injunction, prohibitory 
injunction, preliminary injunction, or a temporary restraining order. [Used in: Part 1A, Item 
11; DRPs] 
 
18. Equity Derivative: Includes both listed equity derivative and derivative exposure to unlisted 
securities. Listed equity derivative includes all synthetic or derivative exposure to equities, 
including preferred equities, listed on a regulated exchange. Listed equity derivative also 
includes a single stock future, equity index future, dividend swap, total return swap (contract 
for difference), warrant and right. Derivative exposure to unlisted equities includes all 
synthetic or derivative exposure to equities, including preferred equities that are not listed on 
a regulated exchange. Derivative exposure to unlisted securities also includes a single stock 
future, equity index future, dividend swap, total return swap (contract for difference), warrant 
and right. [Used in: Part 1A, Schedule D] 
 
19. Exempt Reporting Adviser: An investment adviser that qualifies for the exemption from 
registration under section 203(l) of the Advisers Act because it is an adviser solely to one or 
more venture capital funds, or under rule 203(m)-1 of the Advisers Act because it is an 
adviser solely to private funds and has assets under management in the United States of less 
than $150 million. [Used in: Throughout Part 1A; General Instructions; Form ADV-H; 
Form ADV-NR] 
 
20. Felony: For jurisdictions that do not differentiate between a felony and a misdemeanor, a 
felony is an offense punishable by a sentence of at least one year imprisonment and/or a fine 
of at least $1,000. The term also includes a general court martial. [Used in: Part 1A, Item 
11; DRPs; Part 2A, Item 9; Part 2B, Item 3] 
 
21. Filing Adviser: An investment adviser eligible to register with the SEC that files (and 
amends) a single umbrella registration on behalf of itself and each of its relying advisers. 
[Used in: General Instructions; Part 1A, Items 1, 2, 3, 10 and 11; Schedule R] 
 
22. FINRA CRD or CRD: The Web Central Registration Depository (“CRD”) system operated 
by FINRA for the registration of broker-dealers and broker-dealer representatives. [Used in: 
General Instructions; Part 1A, Item 1, Schedules A, B, C, D, R, DRPs; Form ADV-W, Item 1] 
 
23. Foreign Exchange Derivative: Any derivative whose underlying asset is a currency other 
than U.S. dollars or is an exchange rate. Cross-currency interest rate swaps should be 
included in foreign exchange derivatives and excluded from interest rate derivatives. [Used 
in: Part 1A, Schedule D] 

30 
 
 
24. Foreign Financial Regulatory Authority: This term includes (1) a foreign securities 
authority; (2) another governmental body or foreign equivalent of a self-regulatory 
organization empowered by a foreign government to administer or enforce its laws relating to 
the regulation of investment-related activities; and (3) a foreign membership organization, a 
function of which is to regulate the participation of its members in the activities listed above. 
[Used in: Part 1A, Items 1, 11, DRPs; Part 2A, Item 9; Part 2B, Item 3] 
 
25. Found: This term includes adverse final actions, including consent decrees in which the 
respondent has neither admitted nor denied the findings, but does not include agreements, 
deficiency letters, examination reports, memoranda of understanding, letters of caution, 
admonishments, and similar informal resolutions of matters. [Used in: Part 1A, Item 11; 
Part 1B, Item 2; Part 2A, Item 9; Part 2B, Item 3] 
 
26. Government Entity: Any state or political subdivision of a state, including (i) any agency, 
authority, or instrumentality of the state or political subdivision; (ii) a plan or pool of assets 
controlled by the state or political subdivision or any agency, authority, or instrumentality 
thereof; and (iii) any officer, agent, or employee of the state or political subdivision or any 
agency, authority, or instrumentality thereof, acting in their official capacity. [Used in: Part 
1A, Item 5] 
 
27. Gross Notional Value: The gross nominal or notional value of all transactions that have 
been entered into but not yet settled as of the reporting date. For contracts with variable 
nominal or notional principal amounts, the basis for reporting is the nominal or notional 
principal amounts as of the reporting date. For options, use delta adjusted notional value. 
[Used in: Part 1A, Schedule D] 
 
28. High Net Worth Individual: An individual who is a qualified client or who is a “qualified 
purchaser” as defined in section 2(a)(51)(A) of the Investment Company Act of 1940. [Used 
in: Part 1A, Item 5] 
 
29. Home State: If your firm is registered with a state securities authority, your firm’s “home 
state” is the state where it maintains its principal office and place of business. [Used in: 
Part 1B, Instructions] 
 
30. Hypothetical Performance: Performance results that were not actually achieved by any 
portfolio of the investment adviser. (i) Hypothetical performance includes, but is not 
limited to: (A) performance derived from model portfolios; (B) performance that is 
backtested by the application of a strategy to data from prior time periods when the strategy 
was not actually used during those time periods; and (C) targeted or projected performance 
returns with respect to any portfolio or to the investment services offered in the 
advertisement; however: (ii) Hypothetical performance does not include: (A) an interactive 
analysis tool where a client or investor, or prospective client, or investor, uses the tool to 
produce simulations and statistical analyses that present the likelihood of various investment 
outcomes if certain investments are made or certain investment strategies or styles are 
undertaken, thereby serving as an additional resource to investors in the evaluation of the 
potential risks and returns of investment choices; provided that the investment adviser: (1) 

31 
 
provides a description of the criteria and methodology used, including the investment 
analysis tool’s limitations and key assumptions; (2) explains that the results may vary with 
each use and over time; (3) if applicable, describes the universe of investments considered in 
the analysis, explains how the tool determines which investments to select, discloses if the 
tool favors certain investments and, if so, explains the reason for the selectivity, and states 
that other investments not considered may have characteristics similar or superior to those 
being analyzed; and (4) discloses that the tool generates outcomes that are hypothetical in 
nature; or (B) predecessor performance that is displayed in compliance with rule 206(4)-
1(d)(7). [Used in: Part 1A, Item 5][Effective May 4, 2021, pursuant to Investment Adviser 
Marketing, Investment Advisers Act Release No. 5653 (Dec. 22, 2020) [86 FR 13024 (Mar. 
5, 2021)].] 
 
31. Impersonal Investment Advice: Investment advisory services that do not purport to meet 
the objectives or needs of specific individuals or accounts. [Used in: Part 1A, Instructions; 
Part 2A, Instructions; Part 2B, Instructions] 
 
32. Independent Public Accountant: A public accountant that meets the standards of 
independence described in rule 2-01(b) and (c) of Regulation S-X (17 CFR 210.2-01(b) and 
(c)). [Used in: Part 1A, Item 9; Schedule D] 
 
33. Interest Rate Derivative: Any derivative whose underlying asset is the obligation to pay or 
the right to receive a given amount of money accruing interest at a given rate. Cross- 
currency interest rate swaps should be included in foreign exchange derivatives and 
excluded from interest rate derivatives. This information must be presented in terms of 10- 
year bond equivalents. [Used in: Part 1A, Schedule D] 
 
34. Investment Adviser Representative: Any of your firm’s supervised persons (except those 
that provide only impersonal investment advice) is an investment adviser representative, if  
 
• the supervised person regularly solicits, meets with, or otherwise communicates with 
your firm’s clients, 
 
• the supervised person has more than five clients who are natural persons and not high 
net worth individuals, and 
 
• more than ten percent of the supervised person’s clients are natural persons and not high 
net worth individuals. 
 
NOTE: If your firm is registered with the state securities authorities and not the SEC, 
your firm may be subject to a different state definition of “investment adviser 
representative.” Investment adviser representatives of SEC-registered advisers may be 
required to register in each state in which they have a place of business. 
 
[Used in: General Instructions; Part 1A, Item 5; Part 2B, Item 1] 
 
35. Investment-Related: Activities that pertain to securities, commodities, banking, 

32 
 
insurance, or real estate (including, but not limited to, acting as or being associated with 
an investment adviser, broker-dealer, municipal securities dealer, government securities 
broker or dealer, issuer, investment company, futures sponsor, bank, or savings 
association). [Used in: Part 1A, Items 7, 11, Schedule D, DRPs; Part 1B, Item 2; Part 2A, 
Items 9 and 19; Part 2B, Items 3, 4 and 7] 
 
36. Involved: Engaging in any act or omission, aiding, abetting, counseling, commanding, 
inducing, conspiring with or failing reasonably to supervise another in doing an act. [Used 
in: Part 1A, Item 11; Part 2A, Items 9 and 10; Part 2B, Items 3 and 7] 
 
37. Legal Entity Identifier: A “legal entity identifier” assigned by a utility endorsed by the 
Global LEI Regulatory Oversight Committee (ROC) or accredited by the Global LEI 
Foundation (GLEIF). [Used in: Part 1A, Item 1, Schedules D and R] 
 
38. Management Persons: Anyone with the power to exercise, directly or indirectly, a 
controlling influence over your firm’s management or policies, or to determine the general 
investment advice given to the clients of your firm. 
 
Generally, all of the following are management persons: 
 
• Your firm’s principal executive officers, such as your chief executive officer, chief 
financial officer, chief operations officer, chief legal officer, and chief compliance 
officer; your directors, general partners, or trustees; and other individuals with similar 
status or performing similar functions; 
 
• The members of your firm’s investment committee or group that determines general 
investment advice to be given to clients; and 
 
• If your firm does not have an investment committee or group, the individuals who 
determine general investment advice provided to clients (if there are more than five 
people, you may limit your firm’s response to their supervisors). 
 
[Used in: Part 1B, Item 2; Part 2A, Items 9, 10 and 19] 
 
39. Managing Agent: A managing agent of an investment adviser is any person, including a 
trustee, who directs or manages (or who participates in directing or managing) the affairs of 
any unincorporated organization or association that is not a partnership. [Used in: General 
Instructions; Form ADV-NR; Form ADV-W, Item 8] 
 
40. Minor Rule Violation: A violation of a self-regulatory organization rule that has been 
designated as “minor” pursuant to a plan approved by the SEC. A rule violation may be 
designated as “minor” under a plan if the sanction imposed consists of a fine of $2,500 or 
less, and if the sanctioned person does not contest the fine. (Check with the appropriate self- 
regulatory organization to determine if a particular rule violation has been designated as 
“minor” for these purposes.) [Used in: Part 1A, Item 11] 
 

33 
 
41. Misdemeanor: For jurisdictions that do not differentiate between a felony and a 
misdemeanor, a misdemeanor is an offense punishable by a sentence of less than one year 
imprisonment and/or a fine of less than $1,000. The term also includes a special court 
martial. [Used in: Part 1A, Item 11; DRPs; Part 2A, Item 9; Part 2B, Item 3] 
 
42. Non-Resident: (a) an individual who resides in any place not subject to the jurisdiction of 
the United States; (b) a corporation incorporated in or that has its principal office and place 
of business in any place not subject to the jurisdiction of the United States; and (c) a 
partnership or other unincorporated organization or association that is formed in or has its 
principal office and place of business in any place not subject to the jurisdiction of the 
United States. [Used in: General Instructions; Form ADV-NR] 
 
43. Notice Filing: SEC-registered advisers may have to provide state securities authorities with 
copies of documents that are filed with the SEC. These filings are referred to as “notice 
filings.” [Used in: General Instructions; Part 1A, Item 2; Execution Page(s); Form ADV- 
W] 
 
44. Operational Interactive Website: A website, mobile application, or similar digital 
platform through which the investment adviser provides digital investment advisory 
services on an ongoing basis to more than one client (except during temporary technological 
outages of a de minimis duration). 
 
45. Order: A written directive issued pursuant to statutory authority and procedures, including 
an order of denial, exemption, suspension, or revocation. Unless included in an order, this 
term does not include special stipulations, undertakings, or agreements relating to payments, 
limitations on activity or other restrictions. [Used in: Part 1A, Items 2 and 11, Schedules D 
and R; DRPs; Part 2A, Item 9; Part 2B, Item 3] 
 
46. Other Derivative: Any derivative that is not a commodity derivative, credit derivative, 
equity derivative, foreign exchange derivative or interest rate derivative. [Used in: Part 
1A, Schedule D] 
 
47. Parallel Managed Account: With respect to any registered investment company or series 
thereof or business development company, a parallel managed account is any managed 
account or other pool of assets that you advise and that pursues substantially the same 
investment objective and strategy and invests side by side in substantially the same positions 
as the identified investment company or series thereof or business development company that 
you advise. [Used in: Part 1A, Schedule D] 
 
48. Performance-Based Fee: An investment advisory fee based on a share of capital gains on, 
or capital appreciation of, client assets. A fee that is based upon a percentage of assets that 
you manage is not a performance-based fee. [Used in: Part 1A, Item 5; Part 2A, Items 6 and 
19] 
 
49. Person: A natural person (an individual) or a company. A company includes any 
partnership, corporation, trust, limited liability company (“LLC”), limited liability 
partnership (“LLP”), sole proprietorship, or other organization. [Used throughout Form 

34 
 
ADV and Form ADV-W] 
 
50. Predecessor Performance: Investment performance achieved by a group of investments 
consisting of an account or a private fund that was not advised at all times during the period 
shown by the investment adviser advertising the performance. [Used in: Part 1A, Item 
5][Effective May 4, 2021, pursuant to Investment Adviser Marketing, Investment Advisers 
Act Release No. 5653 (Dec. 22, 2020) [86 FR 13024 (Mar. 5, 2021)].] 
 
51. Principal Office and Place of Business: Your firm’s executive office from which your 
firm’s officers, partners, or managers direct, control, and coordinate the activities of your 
firm. [Used in: Part 1A, Instructions, Items 1 and 2; Schedules D and R; Form ADV-W, 
Item 1] 
 
52. Private Fund: An issuer that would be an investment company as defined in section 3 of the 
Investment Company Act of 1940 but for section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7) of that Act. [Used in: 
General Instructions; Part 1A, Instructions, Items 2, 5, 7, and 9; Part 1A, Schedule D] 
 
53. Proceeding: This term includes a formal administrative or civil action initiated by a 
governmental agency, self-regulatory organization or foreign financial regulatory 
authority; a felony criminal indictment or information (or equivalent formal charge); or a 
misdemeanor criminal information (or equivalent formal charge). This term does not 
include other civil litigation, investigations, or arrests or similar charges effected in the 
absence of a formal criminal indictment or information (or equivalent formal charge). [Used 
in: Part 1A, Item 11, DRPs; Part 1B, Item 2; Part 2A, Item 9; Part 2B, Item 3] 
 
54. Qualified Client: A client that satisfies the definition of qualified client in SEC rule 205-3. 
[Used in: General Instructions; Part 1A, Schedule D] 
 
55. Related Person: Any advisory affiliate and any person that is under common control with 
your firm. [Used in: Part 1A, Items 7, 8 and 9; Schedule D; Form ADV-W, Item 3; Part 2A, 
Items 10, 11, 12 and 14; Part 2A, Appendix 1, Item 6] 
 
56. Relying Adviser: An investment adviser eligible to register with the SEC that relies on a 
filing adviser to file (and amend) a single umbrella registration on its behalf. [Used in: 
General Instructions; Part 1A, Items 1, 7 and 11; Schedules D and R] 
 
57. Self-Regulatory Organization or SRO: Any national securities or commodities exchange, 
registered securities association, or registered clearing agency. For example, the Chicago 
Board of Trade (“CBOT”), FINRA and New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) are self- 
regulatory organizations. [Used in: Part 1A, Item 11; DRPs; Part 1B, Item 2; Part 2A, 
Items 9 and 19; Part 2B, Items 3 and 7] 
 
58. Sovereign Bonds: Any notes, bonds and debentures issued by a national government 
(including central government, other governments and central banks but excluding U.S. state 
and local governments), whether denominated in a local or foreign currency. [Used in: Part 
1A, Schedule D] 
 

35 
 
59. Sponsor: A sponsor of a wrap fee program sponsors, organizes, or administers the program 
or selects, or provides advice to clients regarding the selection of, other investment advisers 
in the program. [Used in: Part 1A, Item 5, Schedule D; Part 2A, Instructions, Appendix 1 
Instructions] 
 
 
 
 
60. State Securities Authority: The securities commissioner or commission (or any agency, 
office or officer performing like functions) of any state of the United States, the District of 
Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, or any other possession of the United States. 
[Used throughout Form ADV] 
 
61. Supervised Person: Any of your officers, partners, directors (or other persons occupying a 
similar status or performing similar functions), or employees, or any other person who 
provides investment advice on your behalf and is subject to your supervision or control. 
[Used throughout Part 2] 
 
62. Testimonial: Any statement by a current client or investor in a private fund advised by the 
investment adviser: (i) about the client or investor’s experience with the investment adviser 
or its supervised persons (ii) that directly or indirectly solicits any current or prospective 
client or investor to be a client of, or an investor in a private fund advised by, the investment 
adviser; or (iii) that refers any current or prospective client or investor to be a client of, or an 
investor in a private fund advised by, the investment adviser. [Used in: Part 1A, Item 
5][Effective May 4, 2021, pursuant to Investment Adviser Marketing, Investment Advisers 
Act Release No. 5653 (Dec. 22, 2020) [86 FR 13024 (Mar. 5, 2021)].] 
 
63. Third-party Rating: A rating or ranking of an investment adviser provided by a person 
who is not a related person and such person provides such ratings or rankings in the ordinary 
course of its business. [Used in: Part 1A, Item 5][Effective May 4, 2021, pursuant to 
Investment Adviser Marketing, Investment Advisers Act Release No. 5653 (Dec. 22, 2020) [86 
FR 13024 (Mar. 5, 2021)].] 
 
64. Umbrella Registration: A single registration by a filing adviser and one or more relying 
advisers who collectively conduct a single advisory business and that meet the conditions set 
forth in General Instruction 5. [Used in: General Instructions; Part 1A, Items 1, 2, 3, 7, 10 
and 11, Schedules D and R] 
 
65. United States person: This term has the same meaning as in rule 203(m)-1 under the 
Advisers Act, which includes any natural person that is resident in the United States. [Used 
in: Part 1A, Instructions, Item 5; Schedule D] 
 
66. Wrap Brochure or Wrap Fee Program Brochure: The written disclosure statement that 
sponsors of wrap fee programs must provide to each of their wrap fee program clients. 
[Used in: Part 2, General Instructions; Used throughout Part 2A, Appendix 1] 
 
67. Wrap Fee Program: Any advisory program under which a specified fee or fees not based 

36 
 
directly upon transactions in a client’s account is charged for investment advisory services 
(which may include portfolio management or advice concerning the selection of other 
investment advisers) and the execution of client transactions. [Used in: Part 1, Item 5; 
Schedule D; Part 2A, Instructions, Item 4, used throughout Appendix 1; Part 2B, 
Instructions] 
